README.md, before:

# Pillar

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/pillar-markup/pillar.svg?branch=stable)](https://travis-ci.org/pillar-markup/pillar)

Pillar is a markup syntax and tool-suite to generate documentation, books and slides.

Read the documentation at [https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/EnterprisePharoBook/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/book-result/PillarChap/Pillar.html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/EnterprisePharoBook/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/book-result/PillarChap/Pillar.html).
[Other formats](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/EnterprisePharoBook/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifactbook-result/PillarChap/)

## Installation

To install this version of pillar, clone this repository and call the `build.sh` script in it:

```bash
$ git clone git@github.com:pillar-markup/pillar.git -b stable
$ ./pillar/build/build.sh
```

That will create a `build` directory in the working directory and build pillar in there. You can then proceed to install pillar where in your home:

```bash
$ mv build ~/.pillar
```

And then add that directory to the `PILLAR_HOME` and `HOME` environment variables, for example, by modifying your `.bashrc` with

```bash
export PILLAR_HOME="$HOME/.pillar"
export PATH="$PATH:$PILLAR_HOME"
```

## To compile a book in booklet format

```
./pillar archetype book
make spiral
```

## Usage in Developement

Once built, you can use the artifact in the `build` directory to work. To finish setting up the development environment, do the following:
- configure the iceberg repository (using the `add local repository` option pointing to your git root)
- open your environment using `cd build && ./pharo-ui Pharo.image`

If you want to debug the pillar command line handlers you can invoke pillar using the `pillar-db` command that is right next to the `pillar` one. This command will open a graphical IDE that will allow you to debug and test properly.

```bash
$ pillar-db introspect something
```

## Dependencies

Producing pdf documents with pillar requires a `LaTeX` with the following packages:

- fira
- gentium-tug
- opensans
- varwidth
- footmisc
- tcolorbox
- environ
- trimspaces
- ctablestack
- import
- multirow

For this, the simplest way to install `LaTeX` is to install texlive-full in your system. Alternatively, you can use a docker install with everything prepackaged. 

```
https://github.com/cdlm/docker-texlive
```

Otherwise, you can do a manual `LaTeX` install in both linux and osx, as we do in our travis builds. Check our [ensure_latex](scripts/travis/ensure_latex.sh) and [ensure_book_dependencies](scripts/travis/ensure_book_dependencies.sh) scripts.

Commit message:

Add windows specific instructions in the readme

README.md, after:

# Pillar

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/pillar-markup/pillar.svg?branch=stable)](https://travis-ci.org/pillar-markup/pillar)

Pillar is a markup syntax and tool-suite to generate documentation, books and slides.

Read the documentation at [https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/EnterprisePharoBook/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/book-result/PillarChap/Pillar.html](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/EnterprisePharoBook/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/book-result/PillarChap/Pillar.html).
[Other formats](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/EnterprisePharoBook/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifactbook-result/PillarChap/)

## Installation

To install this version of pillar, clone this repository and call the `build.sh` script in it:

```bash
$ git clone git@github.com:pillar-markup/pillar.git -b stable
$ ./pillar/build/build.sh
```

That will create a `build` directory in the working directory and build pillar in there. You can then proceed to install pillar where in your home:

```bash
$ mv build ~/.pillar
```

And then add that directory to the `PILLAR_HOME` and `HOME` environment variables, for example, by modifying your `.bashrc` with

```bash
export PILLAR_HOME="$HOME/.pillar"
export PATH="$PATH:$PILLAR_HOME"
```

## To compile a book in booklet format

```
./pillar archetype book
make spiral
```

## Usage in Developement

Once built, you can use the artifact in the `build` directory to work. To finish setting up the development environment, do the following:
- configure the iceberg repository (using the `add local repository` option pointing to your git root)
- open your environment using `cd build && ./pharo-ui Pharo.image`

If you want to debug the pillar command line handlers you can invoke pillar using the `pillar-db` command that is right next to the `pillar` one. This command will open a graphical IDE that will allow you to debug and test properly.

```bash
$ pillar-db introspect something
```

## Dependencies

Producing pdf documents with pillar requires a `LaTeX` with the following packages:

- fira
- gentium-tug
- opensans
- varwidth
- footmisc
- tcolorbox
- environ
- trimspaces
- ctablestack
- import
- multirow
- listings
- url
- import

### *nix specificities

The simplest way to install `LaTeX` is to install texlive-full in your system. Alternatively, you can use a docker install with everything prepackaged. 

```
https://github.com/cdlm/docker-texlive
```

Otherwise, you can do a manual `LaTeX` install in both linux and osx, as we do in our travis builds. Check our [ensure_latex](scripts/travis/ensure_latex.sh) and [ensure_book_dependencies](scripts/travis/ensure_book_dependencies.sh) scripts.

### Windows specificities

Install a `LaTeX` distribution such as [MiKTeX](https://miktex.org/) and install the dependencies specified above using the provided package manager. Then, make sure the bin directory is in your PATH environment variable. For example this could be the following value:

```
C:\Program Files\MiKTeX 2.9\miktex\bin\x64
```

The automatic installer does this for you in general.

Also, latexmk on MiKTeX depends on a perl interpreter, that could be obtained via:

http://www.perl.org/get.html#win32

And requires to install this specific package MiKTeX package:
- supp-pdf
